= Vidibus::Sysinfo

Allows reading various system information.


== Installation

Add the dependency to the Gemfile of your application:

  gem "vidibus-sysinfo"

Then call bundle install on your console.


== System requirements

This gem uses various tools to obtain system data. On Debian Lenny, installing
those tools should be simple:

  apt-get install sysstat vnstat
  vnstat -u -i eth0


== Usage

=== CPU cores

To get the number of CPU cores, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.core
  # => 8


=== CPU utilization

To get CPU utilization in percent, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.cpu
  # => 18.4 # percent


=== System load

The system load value is divided by the number of CPU cores.
To get the system load, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.load
  # => 0.39


=== Monthly traffic

To get the total traffic of this month in gigabytes, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.traffic
  # => 7992.15 # gigabytes


=== Currently used bandwidth

To get the currently used bandwidth in MBit/s, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.bandwidth
  # => 38.71 # MBit/s

Bandwidth detection is performed by analyzing the output of /proc/net/dev.
To get the amount of traffic in a certain timespan, the analyzer gets
called twice and the delta of the two results is the traffic.

By default, bandwidth detection only waits one second, thus the results
will be quite volatile. To get a more accurate result, you can provide
an optional argument:

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.bandwidth(10)
  # => 33.28 # MBit/s


=== Consumed storage

To get the consumed storage of the main device in gigabytes, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.storage
  # => 647.89 # gigabytes


=== Used memory

To get the currently used memory in megabytes, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.memory
  # => 3281.38 # megabytes

This will ignore memory used for system caching.


=== Used swap

To get the currently used swap in megabytes, call

  Vidibus::Sysinfo.swap
  # => 0.0 # megabytes


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Andre Pankratz. See LICENSE for details.
